Acting like a pump,
the human heart is a muscle
that contracts and relaxes
each time it beats.
There are four  heart compartments
or chambers.
The upper two are the atria,
and the lower two are ventricles.
Blood comes into the chambers
and is then pumped
to the rest of the body
to supply nourishment.
The flow of blood inside the heart
is controlled by four thin,
flexible valves that open
and close with each heartbeat.
They are the tricuspid valve,
the pulmonic valve,
the mitral valve,
and the aortic valve.
The aortic valve is composed of
3 tissue flaps, called leaflets.
It is located between the
left ventricle and the aorta,
the blood vessel that carries blood
to the rest of the body.
The aortic valve opens
to move blood from the heart
into the aorta.
Aortic valve stenosis means
the valve opening in the heart is narrow
so the valve does not open all the way.
As a result,
the heart must work harder
to pump blood to the body.